# crop_recommendation_system
A NPK and pH based crop recommendation system to utilize in better cultivation of crops.
A farmer’s decision about which crop to grow is generally clouded by his intuition and other irrelevant factors like making instant profits, lack of awareness about market demand, overestimating a soil’s potential to support a particular crop, and so on. A very misguided decision on the part of the farmer could place a significant strain on his family’s financial condition. Perhaps this could be one of the many reasons contributing to the countless suicide cases of farmers that we hear from media on a daily basis.  In a country like India, where agriculture and related sectors contribute to approximately 20.4 percent of its Gross Value Added (GVA) [2], such an erroneous judgment would have negative implications on not just the farmer’s family, but the entire economy of a region. For this reason, we have identified a farmer’s dilemma about which crop to grow during a particular season, as a very grave one. The need of the hour is to design a system that could provide predictive insights to the Indian farmers, thereby helping them make an informed decision about which crop to grow. With this in mind, we propose a system, an intelligent system that would consider environmental parameters (temperature, rainfall, geographical location in terms of state) and soil characteristics (pH value, soil type and nutrients concentration) before recommending the most suitable crop to the user.
	
1.1	Existing System: More and more researchers have begun to identify this problem in Indian agriculture and are increasingly dedicating their time and efforts to help alleviate the issue. Different works include the use of Regularized Greedy Forest to determine an appropriate crop sequence at a given time stamp. Another approach proposes a model that makes use of historical records of meteorological data as training set. Model is trained to identify weather conditions that are deterrent for the production of apples. It then efficiently predicts the yield of apples on the basis of monthly weather patterns. The use of several algorithms like Artificial Neural Network, K Nearest Neighbors, and Regularized Greedy Forest is demonstrated in [5] to select a crop based on the pre- diction yield rate, which, in turn, is influenced by multiple parameters. 
	
1.1.1	Drawbacks:
One shortcoming that we identified in all these notable published works was that the authors of each paper concentrated on a single parameter (either weather or soil) for predicting the suitability of crop growth. However, in our opinion, both these factors should be taken together into consideration concomitantly for the best and most accurate prediction. This is because, a particular soil type may be fit for supporting one type of crop, but if the weather conditions of the region are not suitable for that crop type, then the yield will suffer.
1.2	Proposed System: We to eliminate the aforementioned drawbacks, we propose an Intelligent Crop Recommendation system- which takes into consideration all the appropriate parameters, including temperature, rainfall, location and soil condition, to predict crop suitability. This system is fundamentally concerned with performing the primary function of Agro Consultant, which is, providing crop recommendations to farmer’salgorithms. We also provide the profit analysis on crops grown in different states which gives the user an easy and reliable insight to decide and plan the crops.
